The Government Publishing Office's eight-hundred-and-forty-five-page report of the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol is divided into eight chapters, makes eleven recommendations, attaches four appendices, and includes four thousand two hundred and eight-five endnotes. Its executive summary, which at nearly two hundred pages can hardly be called a summary, provides a numbered list of seventeen key findings, the first eleven of which have, as the subject of the pred-icate, the forty-fifth President of the United States:

1. Donald Trump purposely disseminated false allegations of fraud.
2. Donald Trump refused to accept the lawful result of the 2020 election.
3. Donald Trump corruptly pressured Vice President Mike Pence to refuse to count electoral votes.
4. Donald Trump sought to corrupt the U.S. Department of Justice.
5. Donald Trump unlawfully pressured State officials and legislators.
6. Donald Trump oversaw an effort to transmit false electoral certificates. 
7. Donald Trump pressured Members of Congress to object to valid slates of electors.
8. Donald Trump purposely verified false ha information filed in Federal court.
9. Donald Trump summoned tens of thousands of supporters to Washington for January 6th.
10. Donald Trump purposely sent a social media message publicly condemning Vice President Pence.
11. Donald Trump refused repeated requests over a multiple hour period that he instruct his violent supporters to disperse and leave the Capitol.

In a foreword to the report, Bennie G. Thompson, the committee's chairman, stresses the importance of "accountability at all levels," but although the word "conspiracy" appears both in finding No. 12 -- "Each of these actions by Donald Trump was taken in support of a multi-part conspiracy to overturn the lawful results of the 2020 Presidential election" -- and more than a hundred times elsewhere in the document, the report is less an account of a conspiracy than a very long bill of indictment against a single man.
Two years ago, the President of the United States attempted to overturn an election for no reason other than that he had lost. A mere handful of Republican officeholders denounced him; for months, nationally prominent members of the G.O.P. refused to acknowledge that Joseph Biden had won the Presidency.
On January 6, 2021, at Trump's urging, thousands of his supporters staged an armed, lethal, and yet somehow also inane insurrection at the Capitol, aimed at preventing a joint session of Congress from certifying the results of the election. They failed. Unless you count being temporarily banned from Twitter as punishment, the former President has suffered no consequences for his actions; Republicans have refused to hold him to account, not least because many Party leaders have been implicated in the attempted overthrow of the United States government. Days after the insurrection, the House voted to impeach the President, but the Senate then failed to convict him. Months later, the House voted to establish an independent, 9/11-style commission to investigate the insurrection, but the Senate blocked that by way of the filibuster.
The House soon voted to hold its own investigation, under the aegis of a select committee composed of seven Democrats and six Republicans. Then Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic Speaker of the House, refused to seat on the committee two Republicans who had supported the insurrection, whereupon Kevin McCarthy, the Republican Minority Leader, denounced the committee and pulled his members from it, after which the G.O.P., declaring the attack on the Capitol to have been "legitimate political discourse," censured the two Republicans who did serve on the committee, Liz Cheney and Adam Kinzinger, both of whom left office this month. (Cheney lost her bid for reelection, and Kinzinger declined to run.)
Congress established the January 6th
Committee on June 30, 2021. The committee's report is the fullest record yet of the conspiracy to overturn the results of the 2020 Presidential election, much of it deriving from the dauntless work of earlier reporters, much of it newly gathered by the committee itself. In the course of eighteen months, the committee reviewed thousands of pages of evidence and presented testimony from more than seventy witnesses during ten televised hearings produced with the aid of the former president of ABC News and illustrated with taped video interviews, Facebook posts, text messages, You Tube clips, and surveillance footage, all of it easily snipped and posted on social media. The hearings made for great television and, probably more important, great memes, the TikTokification of testimony. "Like our hearings, this report is designed to deliver our findings in detail in a format that is accessible for all Americans," Liz Cheney, the committe's vice-chair, writes in a forward to the written report. But the report, unlike the hearings, is dreary, repetitive, and exhausting. In that sense, it's like Trump himself. It's also surprisingly scanty in the key elements of storytelling setting, character, and plot. It's as if the committee found itself unable to surmount Trump's madness and senselessness, trapped in his very plotlessness.
The report doesn't lack for details, which consist mainly of running down and debunking bogus claims about dead voters, shredded ballots, dumped votes, voting machines linked to Hugo Chávez, a faked water-main rupture, suitcases full
of ballots, U.S.B. drives, truckloads of ballots in garbage bins, unmarked vans, a Dominion voting machine connected to China by way of a smart thermostat, and some guy meddling with the election from inside a prison in Italy. There are inconsequential but Veep"-worthy revelations: an Oath Keeper calling followers of QAnon "Q-tards," and Lieutenant General Michael Flynn, at the rally at the Ellipse on January 6th, asked whether he would march to the Capitol, answering, "Hell, no. It's freez-ing." Antics abound: Rudy Giuliani (who is now facing disbarment) holding a press conference at Four Seasons Total Landscaping; Ivanka and Jared fretting, uselessly; a Proud Boys subcommittee calling itself the Ministry of Self-Defense entertaining a proposal from South Florida cryptocurrency investors that refers to the planned attack on the Capitol as operation Storm the Winter Palace, a reference to the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution (leading the report's authors to huff, "No historical event has been less American"). At one point, Trump supporters in Michigan plan to hide out in the state's capitol overnight, so that, in the morning, they can sign an elector certificate that, by law, has to be signed in that building. Not for nothing did William Barr, the Attomey General at the time, refer to Trumps legal team as the "clown car."It's all so madcap and vaudevillian that, if the stakes weren't so high, and the matter at hand not so grave, it would be the Marx Brothers in "Night at the White House." But the stakes are high; they tower.
Trump might get reelected. Or he might get indicted. Both could happen. Even if he were to die tomorrow, the attempt to overturn the election would require an accounting of its deeper roots in American political behavior and discourse, of the anti-government takeover of the
G.O.P., and of the role played by the hundred and forty-seven Republicans who, in the early morning of January 7, 2021, only hours after the Capitol had been cleared of rioters, voted against certifying the results of the election. The siege of the building is, in the end, the least of it. The Department of Justice has so far
filed criminal charges against more than nine hundred people who participated in the insurrection, of whom nearly five hundred have either pleaded guilty or been convicted. The January 6th Report makes eight criminal referrals, recommending that the Department of Justice prosecute the former President (and in some cases other people) for crimes that include obstruction of an official proceeding, conspiracy to defraud the United States, and incitement or assistance of insurrection, the charge for which Trump was impeached in Jan-uary, 2021. Much turns on the reception of this report. As a brief for the prose-cution, it's a start. As a book, it's essential if miserable reading. As history, it's a shambles. 
